# Strategic Routing
In this repository, you find the sourcecode for the prototypical implementations of the algorithms presented in the paper "A Strategic Routing Framework and Algorithms for Computing Alternative Paths", accepted at ATMOS'20, as well as the code and supplementary material for the paper "Evolutionary Minimization of Traffic Congestion", accepted at GECCO'21.

Read the full version of the ATMOS paper here: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2008.10316

Read the full version of the GECCO paper here: https://doi.org/10.1145/3449639.3459307

For the supplementary material of the GECCO paper, please refer to the "gecco_supplementary.pdf" file in the root of this repository.

### ATMOS Abstract
Traditional navigation services find the fastest route for a single driver. Though always using the fastest route seems desirable for every individual, selfish behavior can have undesirable effects such as higher energy consumption and avoidable congestion, even leading to higher overall and individual travel times. In contrast, strategic routing aims at optimizing the traffic for all agents regarding a global optimization goal. We introduce a framework to formalize real-world strategic routing scenarios as algorithmic problems and study one of them, which we call Single Alternative Path (SAP), in detail. There, we are given an original route between a single origin-destination pair. The goal is to suggest an alternative route to all agents that optimizes the overall travel time under the assumption that the agents distribute among both routes according to a psychological model, for which we introduce the concept of Pareto-conformity. We show that the SAP problem is NP-complete, even for such models. Nonetheless, assuming Pareto-conformity, we give multiple algorithms for different variants of SAP, using multi-criteria shortest path algorithms as subroutines. Moreover, we prove that several natural models are in fact Pareto-conform. The implementation of our algorithms serves as a proof of concept, showing that SAP can be solved in reasonable time even though the algorithms have exponential running time in the worst case.

### GECCO Abstract
Traffic congestion is a major issue that can be solved by suggesting drivers alternative routes they are willing to take. This concept has been formalized as a strategic routing problem in which a single alternative route is suggested to an existing one. We extend this formalization and introduce the Multiple Routes problem, which is given a start and a destination and then aims at finding up to n different routes that the drivers strategically disperse over, minimizing the overall travel time of the system.

Due to the NP-hard nature of the problem, we introduce the Multiple Routes evolutionary algorithm (MREA) as a heuristic solver. We study several mutation and crossover operators and evaluate them on real-world data of the city of Berlin, Germany. We find that a combination of all operators yields the best result, improving the overall travel time by a factor between 1.8 and 3, in the median, compared to all drivers taking the fastest route. For the base case n=2, we compare our EA  to the highly tailored optimal solver by Bläsius et al. [ATMOS 2020] and show that, in the median, our approach finds solutions of quality at least 99.69% of an optimal solution while only requiring 40% of the time.
